---
title: SharePoint Online
layout: service
inshort: Team file sharing & storage
groups: File Storage & Collaboration
source: http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/SharePoint_Online
---

**SharePoint Online** (SPO) is the cloud version of
[SharePoint](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=SharePoint&action=edit&redlink=1)
and the major enterprise content management tool that comes as part of
Microsoft’s Office 365 suite of software. SPO provides document and data
management tools along with a [built-in search
engine](http://icsh.pt/HowToSPSearch). SPO is hosted and maintained by Microsoft
on its servers.

SPO is organized by sites, lists, and items. SPO sites are generally used to
create intranets and manage team collaboration. SPO integrates fully with
[Office
Online](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/word-online-service-description.aspx),
the web-based versions of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote, which all
support [co-authoring](http://icsh.pt/CoAuthoring) (simultaneous editing) by
multiple users.

SPO provides similar functionality to earlier,
[on-premises](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=On-premises&action=edit&redlink=1)
versions of SharePoint. SPO is most similar in functionality to [SharePoint
2016](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=SharePoint_2016&action=edit&redlink=1),
though as time goes on this becomes less true as more features are introduced to
SPO on an on-going basis.

History
-------

SPO is the cloud version of the former on-premises version of SharePoint, with
versions that date back to 2001. SPO is updated and upgraded by Microsoft
regularly, with features added and deprecated based on SPO users’ needs.

Accessing
---------

SPO is part of most of the O365 subscription services for enterprises. Accessing
SPO is easy and can be accomplished on any device with an internet connection.
Unless your organization has instituted a VPN, you should be able to log in to
your organization's SPO [tenant](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/Tenant) by
browsing to [https://office.com](https://office.com/), logging in with your
organization-specific [credentials](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/Credential),
and selecting SharePoint from the O365
[waffle](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/Waffle).

Features
--------

SPO is organized by sites and site collections. Sites can have child and
grandchild sites to create a tree or family of sites. There are multiple types
of sites and [site
templates](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Using-templates-to-create-different-kinds-of-SharePoint-sites-449eccec-ff99-4cf3-b62e-dcfee37e8da4).

Sites provide lists and [document libraries](http://icsh.pt/SPDocLibs), which
can be used to organize data and files in a strategic way. SPO provides multiple
list templates, including [calendars](http://icsh.pt/SPCalendars), task lists,
contact lists, [surveys](http://icsh.pt/SPSurveyIntro), and more. Document
libraries provide [version history](http://icsh.pt/VersionHistory),
[co-authoring](http://icsh.pt/CoAuthoring),
[metadata](http://icsh.pt/MetadataGuide), and the ability to [sync files
locally](http://sharepointmaven.com/solve-sharepoint-sync-issues-using-new-onedrive-sync-client/)
(on your computer or mobile device) for offline use.

SPO can be a powerful tool out-of-the-box and can also be customized to provide
higher-order solutions for specific customers. For example, complex
[taxonomies](http://sharepointmaven.com/2-ways-to-design-sharepoint-taxonomy-for-an-organization/)
can be used to organize content and improve search, [content
types](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc262735.aspx) can be used to
provide templates for documents, and [basic
workflows](http://sharepointmaven.com/4-things-to-do-before-creating-a-workflow-in-sharepoint-and-office-365/)
can automate certain tasks.

SPO can be accessed via almost any browser from almost any device and a
SharePoint mobile app is available for iOS, Android, and Windows Phone.

SPO is similar to any app you may have on your smartphone: it gets updated on a
regular basis with bug fixes, feature updates, and major function rollouts. Some
new features can be turned off or deferred by the [tenant
admin](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=Tenant_admin&action=edit&redlink=1),
but many cannot.

Integrations
------------

-   Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote) are built in to SPO
    through [Office
    Online](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/word-online-service-description.aspx).
    Create new Office documents directly in a library or create new files in the
    desktop app and save or upload to SPO.

-   SPO is similar to OneDrive for Business (OD). OD4B is built off SharePoint
    technology and each user receives a OD for hosting personal, draft, and ad
    hoc files before they need to be shared with teammates in SPO. SPO actually
    uses the OD sync client to sync SharePoint files to your hard drive.

-   SPO Task Lists can be [synced with Microsoft Project
    files](http://icsh.pt/MPPtoSharePoint), giving project team members access
    to the tasks, dates, and resources of an MPP file without risking its
    integrity. This minimizes the need for expensive Microsoft Project licenses
    and the seemingly ever-present and poorly formatted PDF Gantt chart for
    those users without licenses.

Limitations
-----------

-   SPO has [file type and naming restrictions](http://icsh.pt/SPFileTypeLimits)
    you should be aware of.

-   SPO has [file size and usage restrictions](http://icsh.pt/SPUseLimits) you
    should be aware of.

Comparison to SharePoint on-premises
------------------------------------

### Additional functionality

Because SPO is regularly updated with smaller features rolled out as they're
ready (as opposed to waiting for a major patch or update to a major version of
SharePoint), SPO enjoys additional functions and features that versions of
SharePoint on-prem do not have or won't gain until those features are rolled
into an upgrade. Below is an incomplete list of features/functionality that SPO
has that earlier versions of SharePoint on-prem do not.

-   [Modern document
    library](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=Modern_document_library&action=edit&redlink=1)
    experience

-   [Modern
    list](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=Modern_list&action=edit&redlink=1)
    experience

-   [Modern
    page](http://icansharepoint.com/wiki/index.php?title=Modern_page&action=edit&redlink=1)
    experience

### Deprecated functionality

SPO lacks some functionality that came with previous, on-prem versions of
SharePoint. Below is an incomplete list.

-   Text/SMS alerts are not supported from SPO even though the option still
    remains visible when setting an alert. The SharePoint
    [indicates](https://sharepoint.uservoice.com/forums/329214-sites-and-collaboration/suggestions/12298992-add-support-for-sms-in-sharepoint-online)
    this will never be included, though they mention push notifications may be
    coming.

Security
--------

Content in SPO is security-trimmed, meaning only those [with
permissions](http://icsh.pt/PermissionsInSP) can access any given content.
Content can be shared with colleagues that are internal to your organization or
[with external contacts](http://icsh.pt/ExternalSharing), presuming the
administrator has enabled external sharing.

SPO comes with numerous [security and compliance
credentials](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/wbaer/2017/03/13/security-and-compliance-in-sharepoint-online-and-onedrive-for-business/),
which system administrators generally review before going live with an SPO
system.

Training
--------

-   [SharePoint Online Video
    Training](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/SharePoint-Online-video-training-cb8ef501-84db-4427-ac77-ec2009fb8e23?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US),
    Microsoft

-   [Everyday SharePoint Tools training](http://icansharepoint.com/tools),
    icansharepoint

-   [Greg Zelfond's
    blog](http://sharepointmaven.com/blog-sharepoint-best-practices/),
    SharePoint Maven

Feedback
--------

-   [SharePoint UserVoice](https://sharepoint.uservoice.com/) ([What is
    UserVoice?](http://icsh.pt/ImproveSP))

Microsoft Resources
-------------------

-   [SharePoint posts on the Office
    Blog](https://blogs.office.com/en-us/sharepoint/)

-   [SharePoint Space on Microsoft Tech
    Community](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/SharePoint/bd-p/SharePoint_General)

-   [SharePoint on Twitter](https://twitter.com/sharepoint)

-   [Security and Compliance in
    SharePoint](https://blogs.technet.microsoft.com/wbaer/2017/03/13/security-and-compliance-in-sharepoint-online-and-onedrive-for-business/)

Further reading
---------------

-   Blog post: [Explained: SharePoint versus Office
    365](http://icansharepoint.com/explained-sharepoint-versus-office-365/)
